---
title: 27th Meeting "NCI Imaging Data Commons, May 2024 status update"
author: Andriy Fedorov, Associate Professor of Radiology, Harvard Medical School
tags: imaging, tools, viewers, platforms, management
---

Please join us Friday, May 17th at 11 AM ET for the Visualization and Image Data Management meeting. We will be hearing from Andriy Fedorov about the NCI Imaging Data Commons.

NCI Imaging Data Commons (IDC) is a cloud-based environment containing publicly available cancer imaging data co-located with analysis and exploration tools and resources. As of May 2024, IDC offers over 65 TB of cancer imaging data - radiology and microscopy - along with the annotations and analysis results and collection-specific clinical data accompanying the images. All of the data available in IDC is shared via public, free egress cloud buckets, with over 95% of the data shared under a permissive license not restricting commercial reuse. As a data commons, IDC aims to serve not just as a repository of data, but also as an environment for exploration, analysis and sharing. In this presentation I will give some of the highlights of the recent developments, focusing on new datasets available in IDC, new capabilities of the accompanying tools developed by IDC, and new use cases demonstrating the utility of IDC and cloud computing.

Presenters: Andriy Fedorov is Associate Professor of Radiology at Harvard Medical School and the Surgical Planning Laboratory within the Department of Radiology at Brigham and Women's Hospital.
