---
title: 28th Meeting "psudo, Exploring Multi-Channel Biomedical Image Data with Spatially and Perceptually Optimized Pseudocoloring"
author: Simon Warchol, PhD Candidate, Visual Computing Group, Harvard University
tags: visualization, tools, viewers, visual-analytics, imaging
---

Please join us Friday, June 14th at 11 AM ET for the Visualization and Image Data Management meeting. We will be hearing from Simon Warchol about psudo.

We present psudo, an interactive system that allows users to create optimal color palettes for multichannel spatial data. In psudo, a novel optimization method generates palettes that maximize the perceptual differences between channels while mitigating confusing color blending in overlapping channels. We integrate this method into a system that allows users to explore multi-channel image data and compare and evaluate color palettes for their data. An interactive lensing approach provides on-demand feedback on channel overlap and a color confusion metric while giving context to the underlying channel values. Color palettes can be applied globally or, using the lens, to local regions of interest. We evaluate our approach through a crowdsourced user study and with a case-study with a cancer biologist.

Presenters: Simon is a PhD Candidate in Computer Science at Harvard University, advised by Hanspeter Pfister and co-advised by Peter Sorger. His research focuses on visual analytics and visualization for cancer biology. He is a member of the Visual Computing Group and the Laboratory of Systems Pharmacology.
